<h2>Term Deposit Susbcription Predictor</h2>

Searching prospective candidates for the term deposit subscription is a time consuming, expensive job and so these financial institutions usually hire marketing companies to do it for them. Marketing companies would pursue a wide range of leads which includes both potential subscribers and those who wouldn’t subscribe. Trying to pursue the latter would be a complete waste of time. With the help of this term deposit predictor, the bank can effectively identify which of these leads are potential subscribers and which are not. This way they can focus on pursuing only potential candidates and not waste time on others. They can also predict whether a candidate will subscribe or not based on their profile and thus can easily generate their own leads rather than depend on a marketing company. Using the data collected by a telemarketing company hired by a Portuguese banking institution, the intend was to build a predictive model which I believe would save time, money and increase search efficiency if implemented by the bank.

This project dealt with highly imbalanced data that had a lot of categorical variables. Ordinal encoding of the features was essential to work with this data. This was performed after analyzing the data visualizations. Different approaches for handling imbalanced classes were implemented such as oversampling, SMOTE and undersampling. In all three approaches, 5 classification models were implemented namely, Decision Tree, Random Forest, XGBoost, Logistic Regression and Naive Bayes. Overall, Random Forest and XGBoost classifiers were working well in all the three approaches. An interesting thing to note is that oversampled data worked better with the models than SMOTE data did. The best performing model is the XGBoost classifier on the oversampled data.
